- In this video, we will discuss the second DHIS2 building block. The data element. By now, you know that the data elements define what is being represented by a particular data value in the DHIS2 system. Let's go back to our example, positive malaria cases, recorded in Namchala Health Center, in October of 2020. The data element details what is being counted. In this case, positive malaria cases. We can conceptualize data elements as labels or variables that describe what a particular data value represents. Data elements often represent a count. For instance, total population, individuals immunized with measles vaccine, and available hospital beds, are all examples of data elements that contain numerical values. Note the data elements are able to store other value types too. Such as text, Yes/no values and others. An important feature of data elements, is that they can be aggregated in various ways. The data elements captured in DHIS2 representing numerical values, can be summed over time, averaged over time, such as from monthly to quarterly values, and counted or aggregated, up the organizational hierarchy such as, from facility to district values. Data elements can also be disaggregated. While aggregation means adding things together, to dissagregate something, means to separate it into its component parts. Age and sex are common examples of dissagregations applied to data elements. Here, we dissaggregated the data element, malaria cases RDT positive, by sex. So that we can see the number of male and female cases as separate values. This type of data dissaggregation, is very useful for data analysis, because it can reveal if there are any differences between sex groups. Now, let's talk about indicators, which are used in DHIS2 data analysis. What are indicators and how do they differ from data elements? While data elements are raw values that are collected, indicators are values that are calculated. To illustrate the difference, an example of a data element, would be a number of immunized individuals while an indicator would be immunization coverage rate that is calculated based on a defined formula. The immunization coverage represents, a percentage of individuals vaccinated, captured as doses given in a target population of all eligible persons. Here, the indicator is immunization coverage, while doses given and target population, are both data elements in DHIS2. Now, let's put all these elements together in a mathematical formula. In this formula, we can see that immunization coverage, is calculated by dividing doses given, the numerator, by the target population, the denominator, and multiplied by a factor of 100 to get a percentage. Similar formulas can be used for calculating many other indicators in DHIS2. These formulas consist of a numerator, denominator, and factor of some kind. Indicator calculations can also give totals. Such as the indicator, number of confirmed cases of malaria. It's calculated as the sum of the cases diagnosed by various methods such as RDT or Rapid Diagnostic Testing, and microscopy. Using indicators that are calculated with population data, enables the comparison of health performance across geographical areas with different population sizes, which is often more useful than comparing raw data. In this table, we see both the data element values, doses given, and population, and indicator values for coverage in two districts with different populations sizes. Comparing the two districts, we can see that district A, has a higher number of doses given than district B. But if we look at the coverage rate instead, which takes the target population size into account a different picture emerges. District B has a coverage of 50% while district A has only 30% coverage. It means that district B has a better record in immunizing their target population despite having the lowest absolute number of doses given. Let's quickly review the main features of data elements and indicators and the differences between them. Both data elements and indicators represent, what is being measured. Data elements represent collected data. Usually a raw count, such as confirmed cases of a disease, population data, or number of hospital beds. On the other hand, indicators refer to values that are not entered directly but instead are calculated using two or more data elements. The calculation includes a numerator, denominator, and a factor, such as in the calculation of immunization coverage or maternal mortality rate. They can also be a total of multiple data elements added together. Like we saw when we discussed, the number of confirmed malaria cases.